docs/pages/management/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Manage your Cluster"
description: "Guides for performing day-two operations on your Teleport cluster."
layout: tocless-doc
---

In this section, you can find guides on managing a Teleport cluster after
deploying it. 

## Export audit events

Teleport's Auth Service maintains an audit log that tracks events in your
cluster, such when a user begins an SSH session or attempts to authenticate. You
can get insight into how users are interacting with your Teleport cluster by
exporting audit events to your log management solution. See how in the
[Exporting Audit Events](./export-audit-events.mdx) guides.

## Security

While Teleport is designed with security in mind, there are steps you can take
to ensure that your cluster is as secure as possible. Read about these in the
[Security](./security.mdx) section.

## Admin guides

The [Admin Guides](./admin.mdx) section describes how to perform routine
administrative tasks in your Teleport cluster, such as upgrading the `teleport`
binary or adding labels to Teleport resources.

## Operations

The [Operations](./operations.mdx) section describes how to perform critical,
infrequent tasks such as achieving scalability, upgrading a cluster, and
rotating Teleport's certificate authority.

## Integrations

Teleport integrates with third-party software in order to enable secure access
to your infrastructure. The [Integrations](./guides.mdx) section describes
Teleport's Kubernetes Operator, Terraform Provider, and other integrations.

## Diagnostics

To get visibility into the performance of the Teleport services running in your
infrastructure, you can use Teleport's built-in metrics, traces, and profiling.
Learn more in the [Diagnostics](./diagnostics.mdx) section.

Commit message:

Add docs subsection about joining services
Closes #21851
Also see #21305

Restructure the "Adding Nodes" guide to make joining Teleport processes
via the Proxy Service the default approach. Make it easier for users to
put these instructions in the context of our other joining methods by
creating a separate docs subsection for our joining guides.

This change also updates the previous "Adding Nodes" guide based on
testing.

This also renames "Node" to "Teleport process" and clarifies the
distinction between running a Teleport process and running services on
the process.

docs/pages/management/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "Manage your Cluster"
description: "Guides for performing day-two operations on your Teleport cluster."
layout: tocless-doc
---

In this section, you can find guides on managing a Teleport cluster after
deploying it. 

## Join Teleport services to your cluster

Protect resources in your infrastructure with Teleport by joining Teleport
services to proxy those resources. To do this, start a Teleport process that
runs one or more services. The Teleport process establishes a trust relationship
with your Teleport cluster through a variety of methods. Read [Joining Teleport
Services to a Cluster](./join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx) for a detailed
explanation of each method.

## Admin guides

The [Admin Guides](./admin.mdx) section describes how to perform routine
administrative tasks in your Teleport cluster, such as upgrading the `teleport`
binary or adding labels to Teleport resources.

## Operations

The [Operations](./operations.mdx) section describes how to perform critical,
infrequent tasks such as achieving scalability, upgrading a cluster, and
rotating Teleport's certificate authority.

## Security

While Teleport is designed with security in mind, there are steps you can take
to ensure that your cluster is as secure as possible. Read about these in the
[Security](./security.mdx) section.

## Integrations

Teleport integrates with third-party software in order to enable secure access
to your infrastructure. The [Integrations](./guides.mdx) section describes
Teleport's Kubernetes Operator, Terraform Provider, and other integrations.

## Diagnostics

To get visibility into the performance of the Teleport services running in your
infrastructure, you can use Teleport's built-in metrics, traces, and profiling.
Learn more in the [Diagnostics](./diagnostics.mdx) section.

## Export audit events

Teleport's Auth Service maintains an audit log that tracks events in your
cluster, such when a user begins an SSH session or attempts to authenticate. You
can get insight into how users are interacting with your Teleport cluster by
exporting audit events to your log management solution. See how in the
[Exporting Audit Events](./export-audit-events.mdx) guides.
