docs/pages/deploy-a-cluster/deployments/gcp.mdx, before:

---
title: Running Teleport on GCP
description: How to install and configure Teleport on GCP
---

We've created this guide to give customers an overview of how to use Teleport on
[Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/gcp/) (GCP). This guide provides a
high-level introduction to setting up and running Teleport in production.

<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

This guide shows you how to deploy the Auth Service and Proxy Service, which
Teleport Cloud manages for you.

</ScopedBlock>

We have split this guide into:

- [GCP Teleport Introduction](#gcp-teleport-introduction)
- [GCP Quickstart](#gcp-quickstart)

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## GCP Teleport Introduction

This guide will cover how to set up, configure and run Teleport on GCP.

The following GCP Services are required to run Teleport in high availability mode:

- [Compute Engine: VM Instances with Instance Groups](#compute-engine-vm-instances-with-instance-groups)
- [Compute Engine: Health Checks](#compute-engine-health-checks)
- [Storage: Cloud Firestore](#storage-cloud-firestore)
- [Storage: Google Cloud Storage](#storage-google-cloud-storage)
- [Network Services: Load Balancing](#network-services-load-balancing)
- [Network Services: Cloud DNS](#network-services-cloud-dns)

Other things needed:

- [SSL Certificate](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/ssl-certificates)

Optional:

- Management Tools: Cloud Deployment Manager
- Logging: Stackdriver

We recommend setting up Teleport in high availability mode.
In high availability mode Firestore is used for cluster state and audit logs,
and Google Cloud Storage is used for session recordings.

![GCP Intro Image](../../../img/gcp/gcp-teleport.svg)

Throughout this guide, we'll make use of the following placeholder variables.
Please replace them with values appropriate for your environment.

| Name     | Example     | Description |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `Example_GCP_PROJECT` | teleport-project | Your GCP project ID |
| `Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS` | /var/lib/teleport/google.json | Path to service account credentials |
| `Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE` | teleport-cluster-state | Name of the Firestore collection for Teleport cluster state |
| `Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS` | teleport-audit-logs | Name of the Firestore collection for Teleport audit logs |
| `Example_BUCKET_NAME` | teleport-session-recordings | Name of the GCS bucket for session recording storage |

### Compute Engine: VM Instances with Instance Groups

We recommend using `n1-standard-2` instances in production. It's best to separate
Teleport's Proxy Servers and Auth Servers using instance groups for each.

### Compute Engine: Health Checks

GCP relies heavily on [Health Checks](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/health-checks),
this is helpful when adding new instances to an instance group.

To enable health checks in Teleport start with `teleport start --diag-addr=0.0.0.0:3000`
see  [Admin Guide: Troubleshooting](../../management/admin/troubleshooting.mdx) for more information.

### Storage: Cloud Firestore

The [Firestore](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/) backend uses real-time
updates to keep individual Auth Servers in sync, and requires Firestore configured
in native mode.

To configure Teleport to store audit events in Firestore, add the following to
the teleport section of your Auth Server's config file (by default it's `/etc/teleport.yaml`):

```yaml
teleport:
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    audit_events_uri: [ 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS' ]
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Table Names">
Be careful to ensure that `Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE` and `Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS`
refer to *different* Firestore collections. The schema is different for each, and using the same 
collection for both types of data will result in errors.
</Admonition>

### Storage: Google Cloud Storage

The Google Cloud Storage backend is used for Teleport session recordings.
Teleport will try to create the bucket on startup if it doesn't already exist.
If you prefer, you can create the bucket ahead of time. In this case, Teleport
does not need permissions to create buckets.

When creating the Bucket, we recommend setting it up as `Dual-region` with
the `Standard` storage class. Provide access using a `Uniform` access control
with a Google-managed key.

When setting up `audit_sessions_uri` use the `gs://` prefix.

```yaml
storage:
    ...
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    ...
```

### Network Services: Load Balancing

Load Balancing is required for Proxy and SSH traffic. Use `TCP Load Balancing` as
Teleport requires custom ports for SSH and Web Traffic.

### Network Services: Cloud DNS

Cloud DNS is used to set up the public URL of the Teleport Proxy.

### Access: Service accounts

The Teleport Auth Server will need to read and write to Firestore and
Google Cloud Storage. For this you will need a Service Account with the
correct permissions.

If you want Teleport to be able to create its own GCS bucket, you'll need to
create a role allowing the `storage.buckets.create` permission. You can skip
this step if you choose to create the bucket before installing Teleport.

To create this role, start by defining the role in a YAML file:

```yaml
# teleport_auth_role.yaml
title: teleport_auth_role
description: 'Teleport permissions for GCP'
stage: ALPHA
includedPermissions:
# Allow Teleport to create the GCS bucket for session
# recordings if it doesn't already exist.
- storage.buckets.create
```

Create the role using this file:

```code
$ gcloud iam roles create teleport_auth_role \
    --project Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --file teleport_auth_role.yaml \
    --format yaml
```

Note the `name` field in the output which is the fully qualified name for the
custom role and must be used in later steps.

```code
$ export IAM_ROLE=<role name output from above>
```

If you don't already have a GCP service account for your Teleport Auth Server
you can create one with the following command, otherwise use your existing
service account.

```code
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create teleport-auth-server \
    --description="Service account for Teleport Auth Server" \
    --display-name="Teleport Auth Server" \
    --format=yaml
```

Note the `email` field in the output, this must be used as the identifier for
the service account.

```code
$ export SERVICE_ACCOUNT=<email output from above command>
```

Lastly, bind the required IAM roles to your newly created service account.

```code
# our custom IAM role allows Teleport to create the GCS
# bucket for session recordings if it doesn't already exist
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=$IAM_ROLE

# datastore.owner grants the required Firestore access
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=roles/datastore.owner

# storage.objectAdmin is needed to read/write/delete storage objects
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=roles/storage.objectAdmin
```

**Download JSON Service Key**

The credentials for this service account should be exported in JSON format
and provided to Teleport throughout the remainder of this guide.

![GCP Service Key](../../../img/gcp/gcp-service-key.png)

## GCP Quickstart

## 1. Create Resources

We recommend starting by creating the resources. We highly recommend creating these
an infrastructure automation tool such as [Cloud Deployment Manager](https://cloud.google.com/deployment-manager/) or Terraform.

## 2. Install & Configure Teleport

Follow install instructions from our [installation page](../../installation.mdx#linux).

We recommend configuring Teleport as per the below steps:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="Open Source">
**1. Configure Teleport Auth Server** using the below example `teleport.yaml`, and start it
using [systemd](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/master/examples/systemd/teleport.service)
or use DEB/RPM packages available from our [Downloads Page](https://goteleport.com/download/).

```yaml
#
# Sample Teleport configuration teleport.yaml file for Auth Server
#
teleport:
  nodename: teleport-auth-server
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
  pid_file: /run/teleport.pid
  connection_limits:
    max_connections: 15000
    max_users: 250
  log:
    output: stderr
    severity: DEBUG
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    # Credentials: Path to google service account file, used for Firestore and Google Storage.
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    audit_events_uri: 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
auth_service:
  enabled: true
  tokens:
    - "proxy:(= presets.tokens.first =)"
    - "node:(= presets.tokens.second =)"
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem label="Enterprise" label="Enterprise" scope={["enterprise"]}>
**1. Configure Teleport Auth Server** using the below example `teleport.yaml`, and start it
using [systemd](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/master/examples/systemd/teleport.service)
or use DEB/RPM packages available from the [Customer Portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com).

```yaml
#
# Sample Teleport configuration teleport.yaml file for Auth Server
#
teleport:
  nodename: teleport-auth-server
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
  pid_file: /run/teleport.pid
  connection_limits:
    max_connections: 15000
    max_users: 250
  log:
    output: stderr
    severity: DEBUG
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    # Credentials: Path to google service account file, used for Firestore and Google Storage.
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    audit_events_uri: 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
auth_service:
  enabled: true
  license_file: /var/lib/teleport/license.pem
  tokens:
    - "proxy:(= presets.tokens.first =)"
    - "node:(= presets.tokens.second =)"
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
```

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/obtainlicense.mdx!)

Save your license file on the Auth Servers at the path,
`/var/lib/teleport/license.pem`.
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**2. Set up Proxy**

Save the following configuration file as `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the Proxy Server:

```yaml
# enable multiplexing all traffic on TCP port 443
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (= presets.tokens.first =)
  # We recommend using a TCP load balancer pointed to the auth servers when
  # setting up in High Availability mode.
  auth_server: auth.example.com:3025
# enable proxy service, disable auth and ssh
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: true
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:443
  # automatically get an ACME certificate for teleport.example.com (works for a single proxy)
  acme:
    enabled: true
    email: example@email.com
```

**3. Set up Teleport Nodes**

Save the following configuration file as `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the Node:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (= presets.tokens.second =)
  # Nodes and other agents can be joined to the cluster via the proxy's public address.
  # This will establish a reverse tunnel between the proxy and the node which is used for all traffic.
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
# enable ssh service and disable auth and proxy
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
```

**4. Add Users**

Follow our [Local Users](../../management/admin/users.mdx) guide or integrate
with [Google Workspace](../../access-controls/sso/google-workspace.mdx) to
provide SSO access.

Commit message:

Tweak messaging to anticipate a new linter
In gravitational/docs#238, we will add a linter that lints for incorrect
usage of Teleport terms. This change fixes linter violations to
anticipate this new linter.

Changes include:

- Ensuring that Teleport service names are capitalized
- No longer using the "[Resource] Access" terminology. Instead, talk
  about adding resources, using Teleport services, etc.

docs/pages/deploy-a-cluster/deployments/gcp.mdx, after:

---
title: Running Teleport on GCP
description: How to install and configure Teleport on GCP
---

We've created this guide to give customers an overview of how to use Teleport on
[Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/gcp/) (GCP). This guide provides a
high-level introduction to setting up and running Teleport in production.

<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

This guide shows you how to deploy the Auth Service and Proxy Service, which
Teleport Cloud manages for you.

</ScopedBlock>

We have split this guide into:

- [GCP Teleport Introduction](#gcp-teleport-introduction)
- [GCP Quickstart](#gcp-quickstart)

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## GCP Teleport Introduction

This guide will cover how to set up, configure and run Teleport on GCP.

The following GCP Services are required to run Teleport in high availability mode:

- [Compute Engine: VM Instances with Instance Groups](#compute-engine-vm-instances-with-instance-groups)
- [Compute Engine: Health Checks](#compute-engine-health-checks)
- [Storage: Cloud Firestore](#storage-cloud-firestore)
- [Storage: Google Cloud Storage](#storage-google-cloud-storage)
- [Network Services: Load Balancing](#network-services-load-balancing)
- [Network Services: Cloud DNS](#network-services-cloud-dns)

Other things needed:

- [SSL Certificate](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/ssl-certificates)

Optional:

- Management Tools: Cloud Deployment Manager
- Logging: Stackdriver

We recommend setting up Teleport in high availability mode.
In high availability mode Firestore is used for cluster state and audit logs,
and Google Cloud Storage is used for session recordings.

![GCP Intro Image](../../../img/gcp/gcp-teleport.svg)

Throughout this guide, we'll make use of the following placeholder variables.
Please replace them with values appropriate for your environment.

| Name     | Example     | Description |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `Example_GCP_PROJECT` | teleport-project | Your GCP project ID |
| `Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS` | /var/lib/teleport/google.json | Path to service account credentials |
| `Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE` | teleport-cluster-state | Name of the Firestore collection for Teleport cluster state |
| `Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS` | teleport-audit-logs | Name of the Firestore collection for Teleport audit logs |
| `Example_BUCKET_NAME` | teleport-session-recordings | Name of the GCS bucket for session recording storage |

### Compute Engine: VM Instances with Instance Groups

We recommend using `n1-standard-2` instances in production. It's best to separate
Teleport's Proxy Servers and Auth Servers using instance groups for each.

### Compute Engine: Health Checks

GCP relies heavily on [Health Checks](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/health-checks),
this is helpful when adding new instances to an instance group.

To enable health checks in Teleport start with `teleport start --diag-addr=0.0.0.0:3000`
see  [Admin Guide: Troubleshooting](../../management/admin/troubleshooting.mdx) for more information.

### Storage: Cloud Firestore

The [Firestore](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/) backend uses real-time
updates to keep individual Auth Servers in sync, and requires Firestore configured
in native mode.

To configure Teleport to store audit events in Firestore, add the following to
the teleport section of your Auth Server's config file (by default it's `/etc/teleport.yaml`):

```yaml
teleport:
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    audit_events_uri: [ 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS' ]
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Table Names">
Be careful to ensure that `Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE` and `Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS`
refer to *different* Firestore collections. The schema is different for each, and using the same 
collection for both types of data will result in errors.
</Admonition>

### Storage: Google Cloud Storage

The Google Cloud Storage backend is used for Teleport session recordings.
Teleport will try to create the bucket on startup if it doesn't already exist.
If you prefer, you can create the bucket ahead of time. In this case, Teleport
does not need permissions to create buckets.

When creating the Bucket, we recommend setting it up as `Dual-region` with
the `Standard` storage class. Provide access using a `Uniform` access control
with a Google-managed key.

When setting up `audit_sessions_uri` use the `gs://` prefix.

```yaml
storage:
    ...
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    ...
```

### Network Services: Load Balancing

Load Balancing is required for Proxy and SSH traffic. Use `TCP Load Balancing` as
Teleport requires custom ports for SSH and Web Traffic.

### Network Services: Cloud DNS

Cloud DNS is used to set up the public URL of the Teleport Proxy.

### Access: Service accounts

The Teleport Auth Server will need to read and write to Firestore and
Google Cloud Storage. For this you will need a Service Account with the
correct permissions.

If you want Teleport to be able to create its own GCS bucket, you'll need to
create a role allowing the `storage.buckets.create` permission. You can skip
this step if you choose to create the bucket before installing Teleport.

To create this role, start by defining the role in a YAML file:

```yaml
# teleport_auth_role.yaml
title: teleport_auth_role
description: 'Teleport permissions for GCP'
stage: ALPHA
includedPermissions:
# Allow Teleport to create the GCS bucket for session
# recordings if it doesn't already exist.
- storage.buckets.create
```

Create the role using this file:

```code
$ gcloud iam roles create teleport_auth_role \
    --project Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --file teleport_auth_role.yaml \
    --format yaml
```

Note the `name` field in the output which is the fully qualified name for the
custom role and must be used in later steps.

```code
$ export IAM_ROLE=<role name output from above>
```

If you don't already have a GCP service account for your Teleport Auth Server
you can create one with the following command, otherwise use your existing
service account.

```code
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create teleport-auth-server \
    --description="Service account for Teleport Auth Server" \
    --display-name="Teleport Auth Server" \
    --format=yaml
```

Note the `email` field in the output, this must be used as the identifier for
the service account.

```code
$ export SERVICE_ACCOUNT=<email output from above command>
```

Lastly, bind the required IAM roles to your newly created service account.

```code
# our custom IAM role allows Teleport to create the GCS
# bucket for session recordings if it doesn't already exist
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=$IAM_ROLE

# datastore.owner grants the required Firestore access
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=roles/datastore.owner

# storage.objectAdmin is needed to read/write/delete storage objects
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding Example_GCP_PROJECT \
    --member=serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT \
    --role=roles/storage.objectAdmin
```

**Download JSON Service Key**

The credentials for this service account should be exported in JSON format
and provided to Teleport throughout the remainder of this guide.

![GCP Service Key](../../../img/gcp/gcp-service-key.png)

## GCP Quickstart

## 1. Create Resources

We recommend starting by creating the resources. We highly recommend creating these
an infrastructure automation tool such as [Cloud Deployment Manager](https://cloud.google.com/deployment-manager/) or Terraform.

## 2. Install & Configure Teleport

Follow install instructions from our [installation page](../../installation.mdx#linux).

We recommend configuring Teleport as per the below steps:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="Open Source">
**1. Configure Teleport Auth Server** using the below example `teleport.yaml`, and start it
using [systemd](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/master/examples/systemd/teleport.service)
or use DEB/RPM packages available from our [Downloads Page](https://goteleport.com/download/).

```yaml
#
# Sample Teleport configuration teleport.yaml file for Auth Server
#
teleport:
  nodename: teleport-auth-server
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
  pid_file: /run/teleport.pid
  connection_limits:
    max_connections: 15000
    max_users: 250
  log:
    output: stderr
    severity: DEBUG
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    # Credentials: Path to google service account file, used for Firestore and Google Storage.
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    audit_events_uri: 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
auth_service:
  enabled: true
  tokens:
    - "proxy:(= presets.tokens.first =)"
    - "node:(= presets.tokens.second =)"
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem label="Enterprise" label="Enterprise" scope={["enterprise"]}>
**1. Configure Teleport Auth Server** using the below example `teleport.yaml`, and start it
using [systemd](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/master/examples/systemd/teleport.service)
or use DEB/RPM packages available from the [Customer Portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com).

```yaml
#
# Sample Teleport configuration teleport.yaml file for Auth Server
#
teleport:
  nodename: teleport-auth-server
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
  pid_file: /run/teleport.pid
  connection_limits:
    max_connections: 15000
    max_users: 250
  log:
    output: stderr
    severity: DEBUG
  storage:
    type: firestore
    collection_name: Example_FIRESTORE_CLUSTER_STATE
    # Credentials: Path to google service account file, used for Firestore and Google Storage.
    credentials_path: Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS
    project_id: Example_GCP_PROJECT
    audit_events_uri: 'firestore://Example_FIRESTORE_AUDIT_LOGS?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
    audit_sessions_uri: 'gs://Example_BUCKET_NAME?projectID=Example_GCP_PROJECT&credentialsPath=Example_GCP_CREDENTIALS'
auth_service:
  enabled: true
  license_file: /var/lib/teleport/license.pem
  tokens:
    - "proxy:(= presets.tokens.first =)"
    - "node:(= presets.tokens.second =)"
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
```

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/obtainlicense.mdx!)

Save your license file on the Auth Servers at the path,
`/var/lib/teleport/license.pem`.
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**2. Set up Proxy**

Save the following configuration file as `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the Proxy Server:

```yaml
# enable multiplexing all traffic on TCP port 443
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (= presets.tokens.first =)
  # We recommend using a TCP load balancer pointed to the auth servers when
  # setting up in High Availability mode.
  auth_server: auth.example.com:3025
# enable proxy service, disable auth and ssh
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: true
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:443
  # automatically get an ACME certificate for teleport.example.com (works for a single proxy)
  acme:
    enabled: true
    email: example@email.com
```

**3. Set up Teleport Nodes**

Save the following configuration file as `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the Node:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (= presets.tokens.second =)
  # Teleport agents can be joined to the cluster via the Proxy Service's 
  # public address. This will establish a reverse tunnel between the Proxy 
  # Service and the agent that is used for all traffic.
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
# enable the SSH Service and disable the Auth and Proxy Services
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
```

**4. Add Users**

Follow our [Local Users](../../management/admin/users.mdx) guide or integrate
with [Google Workspace](../../access-controls/sso/google-workspace.mdx) to
provide SSO access.
