docs/pages/desktop-access/active-directory.mdx, before:

---
title: Desktop Access with Active Directory
description: Integrate Teleport Desktop Access to your Active Directory Domain
videoBanner: v36tlB8D5kk
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="10.2.6"
>

The features documented on this page are available in Teleport `10.2.6` and higher.

</Details>

This guide will help you configure Teleport and Active Directory in order to
provide secure, passwordless access to Windows desktops.

<Details title="Compare Desktop Access to other RDP clients">

Teleport Desktop Access is designed to be a secure access solution for Windows
environments. Teleport implements a minimal feature set of the RDP protocol with
security as a priority, and may not be as performant as standard RDP clients.
Consider Desktop Access to manage access to your most sensitive Windows
environments, not as a drop-in replacement for other tools to provide general
access to Windows desktops.

</Details>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.
  In this guide, we'll install Active Directory on this server in order
  to support passwordless logins with Teleport to the Windows desktops
  in the Active Directory domain.
- A Linux host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.
  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This guide assumes that you will
  run Teleport's Windows Desktop Service on a dedicated host. To install Desktop
  Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the
  [Manual Setup](active-directory-manual.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>
- An Active Directory domain, configured for LDAPS (Teleport requires an
  encrypted LDAP connection). Typically this means installing
  [AD CS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-cs/).

## Step 1/2. Run the discovery wizard

In your web browser, access the teleport Web UI at <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>
`teleport.example.com`</ScopedBlock><ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
`mytennant.teleport.sh`</ScopedBlock>. Click on your user name at the top right
and select **Manage Access**, Select "Desktop" from the main menu, then **NEXT**.

If you already have Active Directory installed, skip to the next step. Otherwise,
copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If
you aren't already running AD Certificate services, copy and paste the second
command after the first one completes and the server restarts:

![Install Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/install-active-directory.png)

Once the server is restarted from one or both command executions, click **NEXT**.

Copy and paste the provided command into a Windows PowerShell window to download
and run the "configure Active Directory" script:

![Configure Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/configure-active-directory.png)

Click **NEXT**.

The PowerShell script will output a Teleport configuration block. Copy this
block to a temporary location. Click **Next**.

On the Linux host you installed Teleport to run as the Desktop Access connector,
edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` and paste the configuration provided by the output of
the previous step. Review and edit the addition as necessarily for your environment:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (=presets.tokens.first=)
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443

auth_service:
  enabled: no
ssh_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no

windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  ldap:
    addr:     '10.10.1.50:636'
    domain:   'windows.teleport.example.com'
    username: 'WIN\svc-teleport'
    server_name: 'windows-server-hostname'
    # insecure_skip_verify prevents teleport from authenticating the LDAP CA
    # against the systems trust store.
    insecure_skip_verify: false
    ldap_ca_cert: |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
        MIIDnzCCAoegAwIBAgIQT/UIn+MT4aZC9ix/QuiV9zANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFADBi
        ...
        31qA4dO3if7RdikD9hVbiIF9jQ==
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

  discovery:
    base_dn: '*'
  labels:
    teleport.internal/resource-id: 42d8859c-60d0-4d7f-9767-bdd66b63fce6
```

Click **Next**.

## Step 2/2. Start Teleport

Once you've saved `/etc/teleport.yaml`, start Teleport:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="System Service">

This command assumes the `root` user. Prepend `sudo` otherwise.

```code
$ systemctl start teleport.service
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Standalone Binary">

From the directory containing the Teleport binary:

```code
$ ./teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The access wizard will detect when the new Teleport instance has joined the
cluster, and you can then click **Next**.

Teleport will discover available Windows desktops in the domain, and list them
under **Desktops**. Click **Finish** then **BROWSE EXISTING RESOURCES** to see them:

![Desktops Discovered](../../img/desktop-access/auto-discovered-desktops.png)

## Troubleshooting

If you hit any issues, check out the
[Troubleshooting documentation](./troubleshooting.mdx) for common problems and
solutions.

Commit message:

Tweak messaging to anticipate a new linter
In gravitational/docs#238, we will add a linter that lints for incorrect
usage of Teleport terms. This change fixes linter violations to
anticipate this new linter.

Changes include:

- Ensuring that Teleport service names are capitalized
- No longer using the "[Resource] Access" terminology. Instead, talk
  about adding resources, using Teleport services, etc.

docs/pages/desktop-access/active-directory.mdx, after:

---
title: Desktop Access with Active Directory
description: Integrate the Teleport Desktop Service with your Active Directory domain
videoBanner: v36tlB8D5kk
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="10.2.6"
>

The features documented on this page are available in Teleport `10.2.6` and higher.

</Details>

This guide will help you configure Teleport and Active Directory in order to
provide secure, passwordless access to Windows desktops.

<Details title="Compare Desktop Access to other RDP clients">

The Teleport Desktop Service is designed to be a secure access solution for Windows
environments. Teleport implements a minimal feature set of the RDP protocol with
security as a priority, and may not be as performant as standard RDP clients.
Consider the Desktop Service to manage access to your most sensitive Windows
environments, not as a drop-in replacement for other tools to provide general
access to Windows desktops.

</Details>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.
  In this guide, we'll install Active Directory on this server in order
  to support passwordless logins with Teleport to the Windows desktops
  in the Active Directory domain.
- A Linux host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.
  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This guide assumes that you will
  run Teleport's Windows Desktop Service on a dedicated host. To install Desktop
  Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the
  [Manual Setup](active-directory-manual.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>
- An Active Directory domain, configured for LDAPS (Teleport requires an
  encrypted LDAP connection). Typically this means installing
  [AD CS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-cs/).

## Step 1/2. Run the discovery wizard

In your web browser, access the teleport Web UI at <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>
`teleport.example.com`</ScopedBlock><ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
`mytennant.teleport.sh`</ScopedBlock>. Click on your user name at the top right
and select **Manage Access**, Select "Desktop" from the main menu, then **NEXT**.

If you already have Active Directory installed, skip to the next step. Otherwise,
copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If
you aren't already running AD Certificate services, copy and paste the second
command after the first one completes and the server restarts:

![Install Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/install-active-directory.png)

Once the server is restarted from one or both command executions, click **NEXT**.

Copy and paste the provided command into a Windows PowerShell window to download
and run the "configure Active Directory" script:

![Configure Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/configure-active-directory.png)

Click **NEXT**.

The PowerShell script will output a Teleport configuration block. Copy this
block to a temporary location. Click **Next**.

On the Linux host you installed Teleport to run as the Desktop Service connector,
edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` and paste the configuration provided by the output of
the previous step. Review and edit the addition as necessarily for your environment:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  auth_token: (=presets.tokens.first=)
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443

auth_service:
  enabled: no
ssh_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no

windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  ldap:
    addr:     '10.10.1.50:636'
    domain:   'windows.teleport.example.com'
    username: 'WIN\svc-teleport'
    server_name: 'windows-server-hostname'
    # insecure_skip_verify prevents teleport from authenticating the LDAP CA
    # against the systems trust store.
    insecure_skip_verify: false
    ldap_ca_cert: |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
        MIIDnzCCAoegAwIBAgIQT/UIn+MT4aZC9ix/QuiV9zANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFADBi
        ...
        31qA4dO3if7RdikD9hVbiIF9jQ==
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

  discovery:
    base_dn: '*'
  labels:
    teleport.internal/resource-id: 42d8859c-60d0-4d7f-9767-bdd66b63fce6
```

Click **Next**.

## Step 2/2. Start Teleport

Once you've saved `/etc/teleport.yaml`, start Teleport:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="System Service">

This command assumes the `root` user. Prepend `sudo` otherwise.

```code
$ systemctl start teleport.service
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Standalone Binary">

From the directory containing the Teleport binary:

```code
$ ./teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The access wizard will detect when the new Teleport instance has joined the
cluster, and you can then click **Next**.

Teleport will discover available Windows desktops in the domain, and list them
under **Desktops**. Click **Finish** then **BROWSE EXISTING RESOURCES** to see them:

![Desktops Discovered](../../img/desktop-access/auto-discovered-desktops.png)

## Troubleshooting

If you hit any issues, check out the
[Troubleshooting documentation](./troubleshooting.mdx) for common problems and
solutions.
