docs/pages/machine-id/reference/telemetry.mdx, before:

---
title: Telemetry
description: An explanation of the telemetry collected by Machine ID
---

This document explains what telemetry is collected by the Machine ID `tbot`
agent, why we want to collect this telemetry and, how to opt in or out.

## Why?

Machine ID is an emerging part of the Teleport product and it's helpful for us
to be able to identify the kinds of use-cases people have. This allows us to
prioritise more common usages. Whilst we try to collect this sort of information
by talking to users directly, having a more general overview of the product in
the wild helps us make even more informed decisions and avoid our decisions
being solely influenced by a select few users.

## Anonymous telemetry

Anonymous telemetry is currently the only mode supported by `tbot`. This means
that the collected data does not include anything which identifies:

- the specific machine `tbot` is running on
- the cluster `tbot` is connecting to
- the hosts, applications, databases and Kubernetes clusters `tbot` connects to
- the user that has configured `tbot`

If we introduce further events to Machine ID's anonymous telemetry in future,
we will abide by the above guidelines and ensure that changes are explicitly
included in changelogs where new information is gathered.

Whilst we do not collect data which uniquely identifies the specific machine
`tbot` is running on, we may collect general information about the architecture
and operating system installed on the machine.

We do not assign a unique ID that identifies your `tbot` installation across
multiple starts. This means it is not possible for us to determine how long
`tbot` has been installed on a machine or track changes made to a `tbot`
configuration on a specific host over time.

We do assign a unique ID that identifies events that originate from a single
`tbot` start (you may hear this be referred to as a "session"). This allows
us to tie together multiple events and determine how long they occur after
`tbot` has started.

### Opt-out/opt-in

Anonymous telemetry in `tbot` is strictly opt-in.

To opt in to this telemetry, set the opt-in environment variable to `1`:

```sh
export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1
tbot start ...
```

You can use the same environment variable to explicitly opt-out of this
telemetry by setting the value to `0`:

```sh
export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=0
tbot start ...
```

If this environment variable is not configured, `tbot` defaults to not
collecting anonymous telemetry.

### Events

Anonymous telemetry currently submits a single event on the start of `tbot`.

This event is called `tbot.start` and contains the following attributes:

- `tbot.run_mode`: one of [`one-shot`, `daemon`] depending on if `tbot` has been
  invoked with `--oneshot`
- `tbot.version`: the running version of `tbot`
- `tbot.join_type`: the join method type that has been configured (such as
  `token` or `github`)
- `tbot.helper`: the name of the helper that has started `tbot` if one has been
  used. For example: `gha:teleport-actions/auth`
- `tbot.helper_version`: the version of the helper that has started `tbot` if
  one has been used
- `tbot.destinations_other`: a count of destinations configured that are not
  associated with Database Access, Kubernetes Access or Application Access
- `tbot.destinations_database`: a count of Database Access destinations
  configured
- `tbot.destinations_kubernetes`: a count of Kubernetes Access destinations
  configured
- `tbot.destinations_application`: a count of Application Access destinations
  configured

Commit message:

Tweak messaging to anticipate a new linter
In gravitational/docs#238, we will add a linter that lints for incorrect
usage of Teleport terms. This change fixes linter violations to
anticipate this new linter.

Changes include:

- Ensuring that Teleport service names are capitalized
- No longer using the "[Resource] Access" terminology. Instead, talk
  about adding resources, using Teleport services, etc.

docs/pages/machine-id/reference/telemetry.mdx, after:

---
title: Telemetry
description: An explanation of the telemetry collected by Machine ID
---

This document explains what telemetry is collected by the Machine ID `tbot`
agent, why we want to collect this telemetry and, how to opt in or out.

## Why?

Machine ID is an emerging part of the Teleport product and it's helpful for us
to be able to identify the kinds of use-cases people have. This allows us to
prioritise more common usages. Whilst we try to collect this sort of information
by talking to users directly, having a more general overview of the product in
the wild helps us make even more informed decisions and avoid our decisions
being solely influenced by a select few users.

## Anonymous telemetry

Anonymous telemetry is currently the only mode supported by `tbot`. This means
that the collected data does not include anything which identifies:

- the specific machine `tbot` is running on
- the cluster `tbot` is connecting to
- the hosts, applications, databases and Kubernetes clusters `tbot` connects to
- the user that has configured `tbot`

If we introduce further events to Machine ID's anonymous telemetry in future,
we will abide by the above guidelines and ensure that changes are explicitly
included in changelogs where new information is gathered.

Whilst we do not collect data which uniquely identifies the specific machine
`tbot` is running on, we may collect general information about the architecture
and operating system installed on the machine.

We do not assign a unique ID that identifies your `tbot` installation across
multiple starts. This means it is not possible for us to determine how long
`tbot` has been installed on a machine or track changes made to a `tbot`
configuration on a specific host over time.

We do assign a unique ID that identifies events that originate from a single
`tbot` start (you may hear this be referred to as a "session"). This allows
us to tie together multiple events and determine how long they occur after
`tbot` has started.

### Opt-out/opt-in

Anonymous telemetry in `tbot` is strictly opt-in.

To opt in to this telemetry, set the opt-in environment variable to `1`:

```sh
export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1
tbot start ...
```

You can use the same environment variable to explicitly opt-out of this
telemetry by setting the value to `0`:

```sh
export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=0
tbot start ...
```

If this environment variable is not configured, `tbot` defaults to not
collecting anonymous telemetry.

### Events

Anonymous telemetry currently submits a single event on the start of `tbot`.

This event is called `tbot.start` and contains the following attributes:

- `tbot.run_mode`: one of [`one-shot`, `daemon`] depending on if `tbot` has been
  invoked with `--oneshot`
- `tbot.version`: the running version of `tbot`
- `tbot.join_type`: the join method type that has been configured (such as
  `token` or `github`)
- `tbot.helper`: the name of the helper that has started `tbot` if one has been
  used. For example: `gha:teleport-actions/auth`
- `tbot.helper_version`: the version of the helper that has started `tbot` if
  one has been used
- `tbot.destinations_other`: a count of destinations configured that are not
  associated with the Database Service, Kubernetes Service or Application
  Service
- `tbot.destinations_database`: a count of Database Service destinations
  configured
- `tbot.destinations_kubernetes`: a count of Kubernetes Service destinations
  configured
- `tbot.destinations_application`: a count of Application Service destinations
  configured
