docs/pages/machine-id/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: Machine ID FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about Teleport Machine ID
---

## Can Machine ID be used within CI/CD jobs?

Yes, however it depends on your CI/CD provider. It's currently a good fit in the
following situations:

 - Either short-lived or long-lived tasks run on AWS instances using AWS IAM
   joining.
 - Long-lived worker nodes, like self-hosted Jenkins workers, using token-based
   joining.
 - You use a supported SaaS CI/CD Provider:
   - GitHub Actions (Teleport 11)
   - CircleCI (coming in Teleport 11.1)

## Can Machine ID be used with Trusted Clusters ?

From Teleport 12.2, Trusted Cluster support for SSH Access has been included in
Machine ID.

We currently do not support Application Access, Database Access or Kubernetes
Access to resources in leaf clusters.

## Should I define allowed logins as user traits or within roles?

When defining the logins that your bot will be allowed to use, there are two
options:

- Directly adding the login to the `logins` section of the role that your bot
  will impersonate.
- Adding the login to the logins trait of the bot user, and impersonating a role
  that includes the `{{ internal.logins }}` role variable. This is usually done
  by providing the `--logins` parameter when creating the bot.

For simpler scenarios, where you only expect to configure your bot with a single 
destination or role, it is permissible to add the login to the logins trait of 
the bot user. This will allow you to leverage existing roles like `access`.

For situations where your bot is producing certificates for different roles in
different destinations it is important to consider if using login traits will 
grant access to resources that you were not intending to grant. For this reason,
we recommend that in this situation you create bespoke roles that directly
include the logins that you wish to grant to the certificates output in that
destination.

## Can Machine ID be used with per-session MFA?

We do not currently support Machine ID and per-session MFA. Enabling per-session
MFA globally, or for roles impersonated by Machine ID, will prevent credentials
produced by Machine ID from being used to connect to resources.

As a work-around, ensure that per-session MFA is enforced on individual roles
rather than enforced globally, and that it is not enforced for roles that you
will impersonate using Machine ID.

Commit message:

Tweak messaging to anticipate a new linter
In gravitational/docs#238, we will add a linter that lints for incorrect
usage of Teleport terms. This change fixes linter violations to
anticipate this new linter.

Changes include:

- Ensuring that Teleport service names are capitalized
- No longer using the "[Resource] Access" terminology. Instead, talk
  about adding resources, using Teleport services, etc.

docs/pages/machine-id/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: Machine ID FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about Teleport Machine ID
---

## Can Machine ID be used within CI/CD jobs?

Yes, however it depends on your CI/CD provider. It's currently a good fit in the
following situations:

 - Either short-lived or long-lived tasks run on AWS instances using AWS IAM
   joining.
 - Long-lived worker nodes, like self-hosted Jenkins workers, using token-based
   joining.
 - You use a supported SaaS CI/CD Provider:
   - GitHub Actions (Teleport 11)
   - CircleCI (coming in Teleport 11.1)

## Can Machine ID be used with Trusted Clusters ?

From Teleport 12.2, Trusted Cluster support for SSH Access has been included in
Machine ID.

We currently do not support access to applications, databases, or Kubernetes
clusters in Trusted Clusters configured as leaf clusters.

## Should I define allowed logins as user traits or within roles?

When defining the logins that your bot will be allowed to use, there are two
options:

- Directly adding the login to the `logins` section of the role that your bot
  will impersonate.
- Adding the login to the logins trait of the bot user, and impersonating a role
  that includes the `{{ internal.logins }}` role variable. This is usually done
  by providing the `--logins` parameter when creating the bot.

For simpler scenarios, where you only expect to configure your bot with a single 
destination or role, it is permissible to add the login to the logins trait of 
the bot user. This will allow you to leverage existing roles like `access`.

For situations where your bot is producing certificates for different roles in
different destinations it is important to consider if using login traits will 
grant access to resources that you were not intending to grant. For this reason,
we recommend that in this situation you create bespoke roles that directly
include the logins that you wish to grant to the certificates output in that
destination.

## Can Machine ID be used with per-session MFA?

We do not currently support Machine ID and per-session MFA. Enabling per-session
MFA globally, or for roles impersonated by Machine ID, will prevent credentials
produced by Machine ID from being used to connect to resources.

As a work-around, ensure that per-session MFA is enforced on individual roles
rather than enforced globally, and that it is not enforced for roles that you
will impersonate using Machine ID.
