docs/pages/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx, before:

---
title: Configure Teleport to Create Host Users
description: How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
---

Teleport's SSH Service can be configured to automatically create local Unix users
upon login.

Host users created by Teleport are transient and will be deleted at the end of an SSH
session. This feature has overlap with the [PAM](./ssh-pam.mdx) integration, however
it provides some additional convenience of not having to manually configure a PAM
script to create and delete users.

It also has benefits over manually creating users as it allows for separate host
users for each member of an organization. This provides more fine-grained control
of permissions on a given host.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.
- The following utilities should be available in the PATH for the Teleport SSH Service,
since it must execute these commands in order to create transient users:
  - `useradd`
  - `userdel`
  - `usermod`
  - `groupadd`
  - `getent`
  - `visudo`

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure a role

First, create a role with `create_host_user` set to `true`. This will allow users
with this role to have transient host users created at login time.

The following role specification will allow users to log in as `nginxrestarter` on
any matching Node. The host user will be created and added to the groups listed in
`host_groups`. They will also be given permission to restart the Nginx service as
root.

Save the file below as `auto-users.yaml`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    # Allow automatic creation of users.
    create_host_user: true
  allow:
    logins: [ "nginxrestarter" ]
    # List of host groups the created user will be added to. Any that don't already exist are created.
    host_groups: [ubuntu, nginx, other]
    # List of entries to include in a temporary sudoers file created in /etc/sudoers.d
    host_sudoers: [
       # This line will allow the `nginxrestarter` user to run
       # `systemctl restart nginx.service` as
       # root without requiring a password.
       # The sudoers entries will be prefixed with `nginxrestarter` in this case.
       # sudoers file reference documentation: https://www.sudo.ws/docs/man/1.8.17/sudoers.man/
       "ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl restart nginx.service"
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```
Create the role:
```code
$ tctl create -f auto-users.yaml
# role 'auto-users' has been created
```

Each value of the `logins` field must conform to the username requirements
of the Linux distribution being used. See [User/Group Name Syntax](https://systemd.io/USER_NAMES/) for requirements in common distributions.

<Admonition type="warning">

When a Teleport user accesses a Node, Teleport Server Access checks each of the
user's roles that match the Node. If at least one role matches the Node but does not
include `create_host_user: true`, automatic user creation will be disabled. Roles that
do not match the Node will not be checked.

</Admonition>

If a role includes a `deny` rule that sets `host_sudoers` to `'*'`, the user will
have all sudoers entries removed when accessing matching Nodes, otherwise `deny`
rules are matched literally when filtering:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    create_host_user: true
  deny:
    host_sudoers: [
       "*" # ensure that users in this role never have sudoers files created on matching Nodes
       "ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" # host_sudoers entries matching this are filtered out
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```

If an SSH Node must never allow the automatic creation of transient Unix users
you can set `disable_create_host_user` to `true` in the Node's configuration:

```yaml
# teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: node
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  # Disable automatic host user creation on this Node, regardless of role permissions.
  disable_create_host_user: true
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="auto-users"!)

## Step 2/2 Test host user creation

When you connect to a remote Node via `tsh`, and host user creation is enabled, the
Teleport SSH Service will automatically create a user on the host:
```code
$ tsh login
$ tsh ssh nginxrestarter@develnode
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
# nginxrestarter:x:1001:1003::/home/nginxrestarter:/bin/bash
$ grep "other" /etc/group
# other:x:1002:nginxrestarter
$ exit
$ tsh ssh admin@develnode # checking the user was deleted after logout
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
$ echo $?
# 1
```

When logging in, the `nginxrestarter` user and any groups that do not already exist
will be created on the host. The `nginxrestarter` user will be added to the `ubuntu`,
`nginx` and `other` groups as specified in the `host_groups` field.

A file will also be created in `/etc/sudoers.d` with the contents of the
`host_sudoers` file written with one entry per line, each prefixed with the username
of the user that has logged in.

The session can then proceed as usual, however once the SSH session ends, the user
will be automatically removed and their home directory will be deleted. Files owned
by the deleted user, created outside the home directory, will remain in place. Groups
that were created will remain on the system after the session ends.

Should a Teleport SSH instance be restarted while a session is in progress, the user
will be cleaned up at the next Teleport restart.

Commit message:

Tweak messaging to anticipate a new linter
In gravitational/docs#238, we will add a linter that lints for incorrect
usage of Teleport terms. This change fixes linter violations to
anticipate this new linter.

Changes include:

- Ensuring that Teleport service names are capitalized
- No longer using the "[Resource] Access" terminology. Instead, talk
  about adding resources, using Teleport services, etc.

docs/pages/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx, after:

---
title: Configure Teleport to Create Host Users
description: How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
---

Teleport's SSH Service can be configured to automatically create local Unix users
upon login.

Host users created by Teleport are transient and will be deleted at the end of an SSH
session. This feature has overlap with the [PAM](./ssh-pam.mdx) integration, however
it provides some additional convenience of not having to manually configure a PAM
script to create and delete users.

It also has benefits over manually creating users as it allows for separate host
users for each member of an organization. This provides more fine-grained control
of permissions on a given host.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.
- The following utilities should be available in the PATH for the Teleport SSH Service,
since it must execute these commands in order to create transient users:
  - `useradd`
  - `userdel`
  - `usermod`
  - `groupadd`
  - `getent`
  - `visudo`

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure a role

First, create a role with `create_host_user` set to `true`. This will allow users
with this role to have transient host users created at login time.

The following role specification will allow users to log in as `nginxrestarter` on
any matching Node. The host user will be created and added to the groups listed in
`host_groups`. They will also be given permission to restart the Nginx service as
root.

Save the file below as `auto-users.yaml`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    # Allow automatic creation of users.
    create_host_user: true
  allow:
    logins: [ "nginxrestarter" ]
    # List of host groups the created user will be added to. Any that don't already exist are created.
    host_groups: [ubuntu, nginx, other]
    # List of entries to include in a temporary sudoers file created in /etc/sudoers.d
    host_sudoers: [
       # This line will allow the `nginxrestarter` user to run
       # `systemctl restart nginx.service` as
       # root without requiring a password.
       # The sudoers entries will be prefixed with `nginxrestarter` in this case.
       # sudoers file reference documentation: https://www.sudo.ws/docs/man/1.8.17/sudoers.man/
       "ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl restart nginx.service"
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```
Create the role:
```code
$ tctl create -f auto-users.yaml
# role 'auto-users' has been created
```

Each value of the `logins` field must conform to the username requirements
of the Linux distribution being used. See [User/Group Name Syntax](https://systemd.io/USER_NAMES/) for requirements in common distributions.

<Admonition type="warning">

When a Teleport user accesses an SSH Service instance, Teleport checks each of
the user's roles that match the instance. If at least one role matches the
instance but does not include `create_host_user: true`, automatic user creation
will be disabled. Roles that do not match the Node will not be checked.

</Admonition>

If a role includes a `deny` rule that sets `host_sudoers` to `'*'`, the user will
have all sudoers entries removed when accessing matching Nodes, otherwise `deny`
rules are matched literally when filtering:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    create_host_user: true
  deny:
    host_sudoers: [
       "*" # ensure that users in this role never have sudoers files created on matching Nodes
       "ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" # host_sudoers entries matching this are filtered out
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```

If an SSH Node must never allow the automatic creation of transient Unix users
you can set `disable_create_host_user` to `true` in the Node's configuration:

```yaml
# teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: node
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  # Disable automatic host user creation on this Node, regardless of role permissions.
  disable_create_host_user: true
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="auto-users"!)

## Step 2/2 Test host user creation

When you connect to a remote Node via `tsh`, and host user creation is enabled, the
Teleport SSH Service will automatically create a user on the host:
```code
$ tsh login
$ tsh ssh nginxrestarter@develnode
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
# nginxrestarter:x:1001:1003::/home/nginxrestarter:/bin/bash
$ grep "other" /etc/group
# other:x:1002:nginxrestarter
$ exit
$ tsh ssh admin@develnode # checking the user was deleted after logout
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
$ echo $?
# 1
```

When logging in, the `nginxrestarter` user and any groups that do not already exist
will be created on the host. The `nginxrestarter` user will be added to the `ubuntu`,
`nginx` and `other` groups as specified in the `host_groups` field.

A file will also be created in `/etc/sudoers.d` with the contents of the
`host_sudoers` file written with one entry per line, each prefixed with the username
of the user that has logged in.

The session can then proceed as usual, however once the SSH session ends, the user
will be automatically removed and their home directory will be deleted. Files owned
by the deleted user, created outside the home directory, will remain in place. Groups
that were created will remain on the system after the session ends.

Should a Teleport SSH instance be restarted while a session is in progress, the user
will be cleaned up at the next Teleport restart.
